.\" $Id: scsc.1,v 1.1 1993/02/08 13:25:40 joke Exp $
.TH SCS-C 1 "6 December 1993" "Version 0.99j" "EDUCATIONAL TOOLS"

.\" this noise gets my name right!
.\"     \*(oe\&
.if t .ds oe \\zo\\v'-0.6m'..\\v'+0.6m'
.if n .ds oe oe

.SH NAME
scsc \- a simple classifier system in C

.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B scsc
[
.I options
]
.TP
	[\fB-N, --no-noise-in-auction\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-S, --no-specificity-in-auction\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-b, --batch\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-h, --help\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-V, --version\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-W, --warranty\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-c, --classifier-data \fI<classifier data file name>\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-d, --detector-data \fI<detector data file name>\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-e, --environmental-data \fI<environmental data file name>\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-g, --genetics-data \fI<GA data file name>\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-r, --reinforcement-data \fI<reinforcement data file name>\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-t, --timekeeper-data \fI<timekeeper data file name>\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-l, --log-file \fI<log file name>\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-p, --plot-file \fI<plot file name>\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-s, --seed-for-random \fI<seed value>\fR]
.TP
	[\fB-T, --time-steps \fI<number>\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B scsc
implements the simple classifier system SCS-C; a C translation
of Goldberg's Pascal SCS (refer to the
.SM SEE ALSO
section below).

.BR scsc 's
input and output streams, and some of it's default parameters
may be changed using various options (see the 
.SM OPTIONS
section below).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-N, \-\-no-noise-in-aution
Turn off the noise generating function during the
apportionment of credit.
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-no-specificity-in-auction
Turn off default hierarchy seeking
(you can also assign zero values to classifier-data parameters
.B bid2
and
.BR ebid2 .)
.TP
.B \-T, \-\-time-steps \fInumber\fR
Run the system for
.I number
of timesteps.
.RB ( Note:
on non-UNIX machines the user may interrupt
.B scsc
by hitting a key on the keyboard. He is then prompted if
he want's to abort execution, or go on:
.I Halt (y/n)?
On UNIX systems this facility is currently not implemented,
we use the shell's job control mechanism.)
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-batch
Run
.B scsc
in batch mode, ie. don't prompt the user for any input;
eg. the random number generator's seed is initialized with
a default value (0.02021965), unless specified otherwise with the
.B `-s, --seed-for-random'
flag.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-classifier-data \fIfilename\fR
The classifier data will be read in from \fIfilename\fR
(defaults to \fIscsc.cls\fR).
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-detector-data \fIfilename\fR
The detector data will be read in from \fIfilename\fR
(defaults to \fIscsc.det\fR).
(Unused in the contributed 6-bit multiplexer example.)
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-environmental-data \fIfilename\fR
The environmental data will be read in from \fIfilename\fR
(defaults to \fIscsc.env\fR).
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-genetics-data \fIfilename\fR
The genetic algorithm parameters will be read in from \fIfilename\fR
(defaults to \fIscsc.gen\fR).
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print a usage message containing all options.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-log-file \fIfilename\fR
Logging information will go to \fIfilename\fR
(defaults to \fIscsc.log\fR).
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-plot-file \fIfilename\fR
Plot data will go to \fIfilename\fR
(defaults to \fIscsc.plt\fR).
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-reinforcement-data \fIfilename\fR
The reinforcement parameters will be read in from \fIfilename\fR
(defaults to \fIscsc.rfc\fR).
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-seed-for-random \fIseed value\fR
Set the random number generator's seed with the real
.I seed value.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-timekeeper-data \fIfilename\fR
The time keeper's parameters will be read in from \fIfilename\fR
(defaults to \fIscsc.tim\fR).
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print a version and copyright message; you
will also be informed which random number generator is
currently compiled into
.B scsc.
.TP
.B \-W, \-\-warranty
Print a warranty information message.

.SH SEE ALSO
David E. Goldberg,
.I Genetic Algorithms in Search, Optimization,
.I and Machine Learning,
Addison-Wesley, Reading MA, 1989.

.BR csh (1),
.BR jazz (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright 
.if t \(co 
.if n (C)
1993 by
.if n Joerg Heitkoetter
.if t J\*(oe\&rg Heitk\*(oe\&tter
.nf
Systems Analysis Group, University of Dortmund, Germany.
.nf
Send bugs, comments, etc., to <joke@ls11.informatik.uni-dortmund.de>.
.fi

.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This work is protected by the terms of the
.SM GNU
General Public License. Please refer to the
.SM LICENSE
file accompanying the sources of this software package for a lengthy, boring,
but absolute complete description.

SCS-C is available via anonymous ftp from the SyS server
.B lumpi.informatik.uni-dortmund.de
(129.217.36.140)
as file `scsc-0.99j.tar.gz' in /pub/LCS/src.

.\" These sources come from
.\" .SM MAGPIE
.\" \-\- The European Free Software Factory Project.
.\" For more information on
.\" .SM MAGPIE
.\" send email to <joke@ls11.informatik.uni-dortmund.de>.
