.TH xantfarm 1 "16 October 1991"
.SH NAME
xantfarm - displays a simulated ant hill in the root window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xantfarm
.RB [ -n
.IR num ]
.RB [ -c
.IR cycles ]
.RB [ -i ]
.RB [ -display
.IR name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xantfarm
simulates an ant hill and displays it in the root window.
.PP
There are three
.B Elements
in the ant world: 
.BR Air ,
.BR Dirt ,
and
.BR Sand .
Ants move through
.BR Air ,
dig up
.BR Dirt ,
and drop it as
.BR Sand .
Ants have three
.BR Behaviors :
.BR Wandering ,
.BR Carrying ,
and
.BR Panic .
There are a few simple probabilities built in to the program
that control the transitions between
.B Wandering
and
.BR Carrying .
To see them
.BR Panic ,
try poking the ants with the cursor.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -n
Specifies how many ants to simulate.
The default is 10.
.TP
.B -n
Specifies how often the simulation runs, in cycles per second.
The default is 15.
If you specify 0, it runs continuously.
.TP
.B -i
Forks a background process and prints the process-id to stdout.
Useful if you want to make a menu command to kill
.IR xantfarm .
.SH "BUGS / DEFICIENCIES"
.PP
It really needs a control panel to adjust probabilities without
having to recompile and restart.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR xsetroot (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1991 by Jef Poskanzer
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
